---
layout: post
title:  "Ponder 2.0"
date:   2016-09-18
categories: news
---

Ponder has undergone some significant changes in this release. V1 featured the removal of Boost.
Subsequent versions have added more features. V2 is moving towards a different design.

## Decoupling

The biggest change is the decoupling of the runtime usage of the declared data. In CAMP/V1 the
declared `Function` contains both the data about the function and the call interface. Additionally
it contains controls for the calling, i.e. `callable()`.

{% highlight cpp %}
class Function  // V1
{
public:

    const std::string& name() const;
    std::size_t argCount() const;
    Type returnType() const;
    Type argType(std::size_t index) const;

    bool callable(const UserObject& object) const;
    Value call(const UserObject& object, const Args& args = Args::empty) const;
    
    ...
};
{% endhighlight %}

In V2 we are moving towards Function being an immutable data object containing information about
the function, but no interface for calling. This has been moved to the "runtime" namespace.

{% highlight cpp %}
class Function  // V2
{
public:

    IdRef name() const;
    FunctionKind kind() const;
    ValueKind returnType() const;
    policy::ReturnKind returnPolicy() const;
    std::size_t paramCount() const;
    ValueKind paramType(std::size_t index) const;

};
{% endhighlight %}

In `ponder::runtime` we now have an `ObjectCaller`. This retrieves the requested function and
allows you to call it. So the use of the `Function` data is decoupled from the data. This stops the
`Function` data from being polluted with a particular usage of the data.

{% highlight cpp %}
class ObjectCaller
{
public:
    ObjectCaller(const Function &fn);

    template <typename... A>
    Value call(const UserObject &obj, A... args);
};
{% endhighlight %}


## Renaming

You might notice from the above that several things have been renamed, e.g. arguments are now
parameters. In the declaration we declare *parameters*, i.e. what the function *receives*.
Arguments are what are *given* to the function when called.

There are also words which have been overloaded, which causes confusion. "Type" can mean a data
type, or a group's classification, e.g. `int` vs integer. Classifications are now "kinds", i.e. a
kind of integer. This might seem pedantic but in an API like this type is used extensively!

{% highlight cpp %}
enum class ValueKind
{
    None,       // No type has been defined yet
    Boolean,    // Boolean type (bool)
    Integer,    // Integer types (unsigned/signed char short int long)
    Real,       // Real types (float, double)
    String,     // String types (char*, ponder::String)
    Enum,       // Enumerated types
    Array,      // Array types (std::vector, std::list, T[])
    User        // User-defined classes
};
    
enum class FunctionKind
{
    None,               // not a function
    Function,           // a function
    MemberFunction,     // function in a class or struct
    MemberObject,       // object in a class or struct
    FunctionWrapper,    // `std::function<>`
    BindExpression,     // `std::bind()`
    Lambda              // lambda function `[](){}`
};
{% endhighlight %}

Another example is renaming `PONDER_RTTI` to `PONDER_POLYMORPHIC` (issue #36). The macro only needs
to be added to a user API when we want to support polymorphism.

## Lua binding generator

A new feature is the Lua binding generator (issue #40). Please note this is still in development at
the current time and could change significantly. This can expose a class declaration to Lua so that
the functions can be called and the properties can get and set values. More articles to come.

## Other changes

See [changelog][cl] for full list. Other changes are:

### Added support for binding to static functions (issue #46)

We can now add non-member functions to a class declaration. This can be a class static function, or
a non-class function.

### Added function call return policies (issue #51)

Declared functions that return values can declare return policies. If a function returns, say, a
`const` reference this is ambiguous. It could either be a reference that will be copied to form a
new object, or a reference to an internal object that we want to inspect. We can now use
`ponder::policy::ReturnCopy` and `ponder::policy::ReturnInternalRef` to choose which one to return.
The API will bind the function accordingly.

### Removed UserObject parent-child. Simplification, unused.

`UserObject`s had a parent-child relationship. I am unsure of the use for this and in complicated
the `UserObject` implementation somewhat so it has been removed.

 

[cl]: https://github.com/billyquith/ponder/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md

