---
layout: post
title:  "Ponder 1.1"
date:   2016-05-16
categories: news releases
---

## Changes

### Placement new creation of objects added

You can now use placement new to specify the location of a class instance. This is useful
if you are managing your own memory.

    const ponder::Class* metaclass = &ponder::classByType<MyClass>();
    const std::size_t sz = metaclass->sizeOf();

    char* p = malloc(sizeof(sz))

    // note extra argument here:
    ponder::UserObject object = metaclass->construct(ponder::Args(), p);

    MyClass* instance = object.get<MyClass*>();

    assert(instance == reinterpret_cast<MyClass*>(p));

    // Be sure to destruct the object as destroy calls delete.
    metaclass->destruct(object); // not destroy()
    free(p);


*Note* there is now a `Class::destruct()` to pair with placement new.


### Ability to undeclare Classes and Enums

Classes and Enums can be undeclared. This is useful if you need to unload classes which
you will no longer need. E.g. when unloading dynamic libraries which contain Ponder 
registered objects.

Be careful not to auto register the class declarations or they will be added straight back
again!

    void declare_types()
    {
        ponder::Class::declare<MyClass>()
            // ... members
            ;
    }

    void undeclare_temp()
    {
        ponder::Class::undeclare(ponder::classByType<MyClass>());
    }
    
    PONDER_TYPE(MyClass);  // not PONDER_AUTO_TYPE()


### Class function and property iterators added

Properties and functions are easier to iterate over:

    for (auto prop : metaclass.propertyIterator()) {}

    for (auto func : metaclass.functionIterator()) {}


### UserObject function and property access by index added

In addition to by name and functions and properties in UserObjects can be accessed
by index:

    MyClass object(3);
    ponder::UserObject userObject(object);
    userObject.get(0);
    userObject.set(1, 7);



### Internal

Dictionaries are now ordered (sorted alphabetically) internally. The insertion cost will
be more, but this will only happen on declaration. Searching for keys will become a binary
search rather than linear.

